
The biggest difference between a journey map and an experience map is that Customer Journey Maps are about only a single product or service offered by your business. Yes, it includes every single interaction a customer makes with your business, but only related to a particular product.

[[3.c.1 customer journey map은 특정 프로덕트의 고객의 전체 여정을 표시한다.]]

[[3.c.2 CX map은 특정 제품이나 서비스에 제한되지 않는다.]]

## Multi vs . single-channel

The experience map details the customer experience over multiple channels, exploring every part of that overall experience. The journey map explores a different part of the customer journey, with a focus on how the customer interacts with a single product or service the customer offers. For example, a company might create a CJM to analyze customers' responses to a new product line, but use a CEM to track the conversion of leads from the latest social media campaign.

## Specificity

Another key difference between CEM and CJM is the specificity that each tool accomplishes. A CJM is a specific study of a customer's journey with one product or service, from initial impressions to the post-product actions. This specificity allows the company to study how customers identify and interact with the brand's products or services more closely and identify any common trends among leads or customers. The customer experience is slightly less specific, focusing on a more broad range of events through multiple channels, trying to understand the customer's overall experience with the brand.

## Emotions vs. journeys

When you're comparing CJM and CEM, it's important to understand that one tool measures a customer's process for discovering and purchasing a process, and the other focuses on the emotions and actions of the customers when they interact with the brand. The CJM focuses on how customers find specific products, like what keywords they might use, what content they follow or share on social media, or how they respond to recommendations. The CEM might account for customer reviews and feedback to more accurately determine how leads and converted customers feel about the sales process and products or services.

## Uses

The uses of CEM and CJM also differ, despite both being important components in marketing plans and executive decision-making. For example, a company might use CEM to create a more pleasant and efficient customer experience by enhancing customer services, brand reliability, and quality. The same company might study a CJM to improve a specific product or service the company offers that consistently reports poor feedback or reduces the overall customer experience. Executives might use these tools to make large-scale decisions about marketing practices, services and product changes, and major financial decisions for the business.

## Costs

Another key difference between CJM and CEM is the costs associated with each. If the company only needs a short report on a specific product, the cost is typically minimal. They might ask the marketing or sales department to generate the report, internalizing those costs to reduce them. Alternatively, the same company might spend more on a complete CEM, since it covers more of the customers' responses and emotions to the brand as a whole. This can require much more information, which might require hiring outside analysts or consultants to acquire and study effectively.
