계획은 그 자체로 가치를 제공하는 것이 아니라 프로젝트를 더 잘 실행하는 데 도움이 되는 범위 내에서만 가치가 있습니다. 계획은 준수하는 것보다 당연히 가치를 전하는데 많은 주의를 기울여야 합니다. 납기를 지키는 것도 중요하지만 가치를 전하는 것이 훨씬 중요하다. 

-----

One of my former managers liked to say, “Plan the work and work the plan.” The expression’s symmetry and brevity gives it a ring of truth that is quite unjustified. Perhaps, “Plan the work and work the plan, if you are in a domain where sticking to a plan is valuable,” would be a more apt—though less beautiful—construction. I like the alternative proposed by Jeff Patton in User Story Mapping: Discover the Whole Story, Build the Right Product, “Plan to learn, and learn to plan.”1 Plan to learn: learning is valuable if we use it to adjust our plans, so we should tailor our process to maximize learning. Learn to plan: find out through experience what plans are actually valuable for, and optimize the planning process to derive that value.

- I believe that even if we discover we are doing something silly, we should persevere, because the plan says so. 
- I believe that we should try not to learn anything during the project that might lead us to change the plan. 
- I believe that assumptions we make before we start the project are more important than actual facts we learn during the course of the project. 
- I believe that responding to changing circumstances is not valuable if it leads us to diverge from the plan. 
- I believe that spending time creating a plan is more important than spending time delivering outcomes.

The plan does not provide value per se: it is valuable only to the extent that it results in better execution of the project. Or, to push that a bit further: if we spent a lot of resources planning but only made a slight increase in the effectiveness of execution, that still would not be helpful.

#uncertainty #planing 

Reference : [[a Seat at the Table(IT 리더의 자리)]]
connect with : [[6.1 CIO는 불확실성을 통제하는 사람이 아니다.]]